jpy
===

jpy is a *bi-directional* Java-Python bridge which you can use to embed Java code in Python programs or the other
way round. It has been designed particularly with regard to maximum data transfer speed between the two languages.
It comes with a number of outstanding features:

* Fully translates Java class hierarchies to Python
* Transparently handles Java method overloading
* Support of Java multi-threading
* Fast and memory-efficient support of primitive Java array parameters via `Python buffers <http://docs.python.org/3.3/c-api/buffer.html>`_
  (e.g. `numpy arrays <http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/arrays.html>`_)
* Support of Java methods that modify primitive Java array parameters (mutable parameters)
* Java arrays translate into Python sequence objects
* Java API for accessing Python objects (``jpy.jar``)

The initial development of jpy has been driven by the need to write Python extensions to an established scientific
imaging application programmed in Java (`ESA BEAM <http://www.brockmann-consult.de/cms/web/beam/>`_).
Writing such Python plug-ins for a Java application usually requires a bi-directional communication between Java and
Python, namely the Python extension code must be able to calling back into the Java APIs.


How to Build
------------

After you have checked out jpy from GitHub or downloaded the sources, open a terminal window and cd into the check-out
directory. Then you first have to build and install the jpy Python module and then the jyp Java library.

Windows
^^^^^^^

You will need
* Python 3.3
* JDK 1.7
* Maven 3
* Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 (MSVC)

The Python setup tools make use of the command-line C/C++ compiler of MSVC so you need to set all required compiler
environment variables as described in http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/f2ccy3wt.aspx. Note that if you use
Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Express, then only 32-bit versions of jpy can be built. In this case make sure that you also
use the 32-bit versions of Python and the JDK.

To build and test the jpy Python module use the following commands:

    > SET VS90COMNTOOLS=%VS100COMNTOOLS%
    > SET PATH=%JDK_HOME%\jre\bin\server;%PATH%
    > python setup.py install

To create a jpy Windows executable installer, use

    > python setup.py bdist_wininst

To build and test the jpy Java library we use Maven:

    > SET JAVA_HOME=%JDK_HOME%
    > mvn install


Unix/Darwin
^^^^^^^^^^^

You will need
* Python 3.3 Dev (!)
* JDK 1.7
* Maven 3
* gcc

To build and test the jpy Python module use the following commands:

    > export JDK_HOME=%JDK32_HOME%
    > export path=$JDK_HOME\jre\bin\server;$path
    > python3.3 setup.py install --user

To build and test the jpy Java library we use Maven:

    > SET JAVA_HOME=%JDK_HOME%
    > mvn install

How to modify
-------------

After changing `org.jpy.PyLib`, run

    > javah -d src/main/c/jni -v -classpath target/classes org.jpy.PyLib

and adapt changes `org_jpy_PyLib.c` according to newly generated `org_jpy_PyLib.h` and `org_jpy_PyLib_Diag.h`.
Files are found in `src/main/c/jni/`.


C programming guideline
-----------------------

* Follow style used in Python itself
* Usually functions shall indicate errors by returning NULL or -1 on error.
  Callers can expect that the PyErr_SetError has been set correctly and thus simply
  return NULL or -1 again.
  Exception: very simple functions, e.g. JPyObj_Check(), can go without error status indication.
* Naming conventions:

    jpy_jtype.h/c - The Java Meta-Type
        JPy_JType type
        JType_xxx() functions
    jpy_jobj.h/c  - The Java Object Wrapper
        JPy_JObj type
        JObj_xxx() functions
    jpy_jmethod.h/c - The Java Method Wrapper
        JPy_JMethod type
        JPy_JOverloadedMethod type
        JMethod_xxx() functions
        JOverloadedMethod_xxx() functions
    jpy_jfield.h/c - The Java Field Wrapper
        JPy_JField type
        JField_xxx() functions
    jpy_conv.h/c - Conversion of Python objects from/to Java values
        JPy_From<JType> functions / JPy_FROM_<JTYPE> macros create Python objects (new references!) from Java types
        JPy_As<JType> functions / JPy_AS_<JTYPE> macros convert from Python objects to Java types
    jpy_diag.h/c - Control of outputting diagnostic info
        JPy_Diag type
        JPy_DIAG_F_<name> macros
        JPy_DIAG_PRINT(flags, format, ...) macros
    jpy_module.h/c - The 'jpy' module definition
        JPy_xxx() functions
    jni/org_jpy_python_PyLib.h - generated by javah from PyLib.java
    jni/org_jpy_python_PyLib_Diag.h - generated by javah from PyLib.java
    jni/org_jpy_python_PyLib.c - native implementations from PyLib.java




Why jpy?
--------
Advantages over the 'beampy' code generation approach:
* Since the binding is dynamic, it can be used with any BEAM version instead of generating code
  for a given BEAM source code version
* Can load *any* Java classes, not only ones for which code has been generated
* Transparently deals with Java method overloads, instead of renaming methods
* It is more pythonic: Real constructors instead of generated static New_<Type> methods
* Java Class inheritance is be preserved
* Source code is easier to understand and maintain as with the codegen approach
* Different modes of operations can be used without static compilation (e.g. use buffers)
* Can use Python to configure the JVM (e.g. class path assembly from Java app install dir)

Disadvantages to the 'beampy' codegen approach:
* No in-built documentation for classes, fields and methods (but actually Java docs can be used instead)
* A bit slower, method resolution at runtime.
* Memory overhead because for every Java class we create a Python type that stores all Java methods as attributes




Final TODOs for v1.0
--------------------

* Assert rigorously that Python reference counting is correct.
* Assert rigorously that Java global/local references are correctly created and released.



Possible Usability Improvements and Optimisations
-------------------------------------------------
* Allow to pass Python a list, dict, or set where a Java method expects a List or array, a Map, or a Set.
* Implement the Python list, dict, and set protocols where a Java method returns a List, a Map, or a Set.
* Add a new module function 'import' which calls 'get_class' but then creates new modules up the last dot in the class name.
  E.g. java.io.File will create the module 'java', than create 'io' and add this to 'java' and then add class 'File' to 'io'.
* Add constant 'ref' field to JObj_Type so that we can easily test for Java object identity
* If we only have one JOverloadedMethod then we should use JMethod instead. JOverloadedMethod must be a sub-type of JMethod.
* Add various modes of operation:
* Provide compatibility with Python 3.2.
  For example, the 3.3 function PyUnicode_AsUTF8() can be replaced as follows:

       PyObject* pyUTF8 = PyUnicode_AsEncodedString(pyUnicode, "utf-8", "replace");
       char* chars = PyBytes_AsString(pyUTF8);
       ...
       Py_DECREF(pyUTF8);


